# How to create deployment artifacts for Serverless apps that can be re-used on rollback?

When you think about deploying/rolling back your Serverless app, you want to treat each service as standalone services in terms of deploying and rolling back. Thus you want to create and manage deployment artifact for each service independently.

Now let's look at how to create a deployment artifact for a Serverless service.

A bit of background, when you run `serverless deploy`, two steps are run behind the scene. Serverless Framework first runs `serverless package` to package your code and builds a CloudFormation template. By default, the artifact is generated in the .serverless folder with the following content:

- a zip file with the Lambda code for your service; or
- one zip file for each Lambda function in your service if individual packaging is turned on;
- a CloudFormation template file that describes the resources defined in your serverless.yml;
- a serverless-state.json file that is used internally by Serverless Framework.

After the artifact is generated, Serverless then runs `serverless deploy -p dir_to_package` to deploy the artifact, by:

- uploads the zip files to S3; then
- updates the CloudFormation template with S3 paths to the Lambda zip files; then
- submits the template to CloudFormation to kick start the deployment

The artifact folder generated by `serverless package` can be re-used later when you want to rollback. When you do, you can simply skip the package step, and run `serverless deploy -p` using the same artifact package. 
